Installing miau
----------------------------------------

- Type './configure' to configure miau or './configure --enable-local'
  if you'd like to install miau locally in your account.
- Type 'make' to compile.
- Type 'make install' to install miau.

If make fails in "doc" or "misc" directories, you can probably still get the
executable by going to "src" directory and running "make" there.

On SunOS 5.8, in case make fails, try running gmake, it should work.



Installing from SVN
----------------------------------------

If you have fetched miau from SVN, you will have to generate "configure" and
config.h.in using autotools. Running ./autogen.sh should do the trick. If you
don't have automake and friends, Subversion trunk is not for you.

Once you have created configure-script, proceed as described above.



Configure options
----------------------------------------

  --enable-local
	Running "make install" will install miau locally under user's home
	directory. By default miau would be installed system wide.

  --enable-ipv6
	Enable IPv6. Note that this disables IPv4-support for good. Also see
	"Note about IPv6".

  --disable-dccbounce
	Disables DCC-bouncing capability. Configuration options "dccbounce" and
	"dccbindhost" cannot be used without this. Most users do not really
	need this.

  --disable-automode
	Disables automode capability. When configured with enable-automode,
	miau can give privileges to users when they join a channel.
	Configuration options "automode" and "automodedelay" cannot be used
	without this.

  --disable-mkpasswd
	Disables capability to generate password hashes for "password" option.
	This is an implementation for standard "mkpasswd" command. Most people
	don't need this, but it can be helpfun on systems without "mkpasswd" or
	equivalent.

  --enable-releasenick
	Enables miau to change its nick after receiving certain command over
	IRC. Do not use this feature unless you really know what you're getting
	in to. People should avoid this like plague, and as such no more
	information is given here. :-)

  --disable-uptime
	Disables online command "UPTIME". This command will print out time miau
	has been connected to an IRC server. Most people can live their lives
	happily without this feature.

  --disable-chanlog
	Disables channel logging feature. Configuration option "chanlog" cannot
	be used without this. Channel logging feature allows miau to log
	channels directly via miau. Limitations apply, see misc/miaurc for
	details.

  --disable-privlog
	Disables private message logging feature. Configuration option
	"privlog" cannot be used without this. Private message feature allows
	miau to log private messages directly via miau.

  --disable-onconnect
	Disables predefined actions when miau connects to a server.
	Configuration option "onconnect" cannot be used without this. People
	using "nickserv" that does not accept server password as nickserv
	password probably want to enable this feature.

  --enable-empty-awaymsg
	Allows miau to send empty AWAY message. Some servers treat empty AWAY
	message the same way as non-empty while others treat then as unsetting
	user away.

  --disable-ctcp-replies
	Disables built-in CTCP replies. Since many IRC-networks except to get
	valid responses for VERSION, PING, and CLIENTINFO queries, miau
	responds to these automatically.

  --disable-ascii-art
	Disables fancy ASCII banner miau prints at start-up and when a client
	conencts to miau.

  --disable-quicklog
	Disables "quicklog" functionality. Configuration options "qloglength",
	"timestamp", "flushqlog", "autoqlog", and "qlog_no_my_quit" will not
	work if quicklog is disabled.

  --disable-qlogstamp
	Disables quicklog timestamping. Configuration option "timestamp" does
	not work if qlogstamp is disabled. Note that qlogstamp does nothing if
	quicklog is disabled.

  --disable-inbox
	Disables inbox functionality. When clients are not connected, and
	private messages are not written in quicklog, or they expire, messages
	are written in inbox. When client connects, miau will then notify user
	about messages waiting in inbox.

  --disable-enduserdebug
	Prevents miau from sending debug information to connected client in
	case of unexpected messages from IRC network, or when internal status
	indicates something is wrong. Enable this if you want to help
	developer(s) to get rid of remaining bugs in miau. So far experience
	has shown that enduserdebug generates /very/ few messages if any.

  --enable-pingstat
	Allow miau to collect information about sent PINGs and received PONGs.
	Along with enduserdebug, miau will warn about lost PING replies when
	miau experiences lag from the server. Online command "PINGSTAT" will
	not work without this.

  --disable-dumpstatus
	Disables online command "DUMP" and "USR2" signal handling. Receiving
	any will make miau dump its internal status to connected clients and to
	stderr. This is often quite helpful when debugging internals of miau.

  --enable-debug
	Enables -g switch for compiler. If you don't know what this means, you
	probably don't need it. Even if you do, you know how to get the same
	results with other means.



Note about IPv6
----------------------------------------

IPv6 support is /not/ automatically compiled in, as miau does not currently
support using both IPv4 and IPv6 protocols at once. However IPv4-mapped
IPv6-addresses can be used. For instance, IPv4 address 172.16.1.1 can be
written as ::ffff:172.16.1.1.

Give '--enable-ipv6' to configure to enable support for IPv6.
